# Camara QoD meeting - MOM-2023-07-14

*July 14th, 2023*

## Attendees (not complete - add if needed)

* Andrew Wajs (Scenera)
* Emil Zhang (Ericsson)
* Eric Murray (Vodafone)
* Gareth Williams (GSMA)
* Herbert Damker (Deutsche Telekom)
* Joachim Dahlgreen (Ericsson)
* Jorge Garcia Hospital (Telefonica)
* Jose Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Ramesh Shanmugasundaram (Spry Fox Networks)
* Randy Levensalor (CableLabs)
* Syed A Rehman (Verizon)
* Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)
* ...

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)


## Agenda

* Open Issues
* Open PRs
* API Roadmap
* AOB


## Open Issues

* [#174 Simplify Event Model for Notification in v0.9.0](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/174)
  PR #177 is open, will get closed with it

* [#158 Add linting GitHub actions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/158)
  PR #171 open for this, will be address after release of v0.9.0

* Other issues not discussed

## Open PRs

* [#177 fix(openapi): Add inheritance beetween Event and QosStatusChangedEvent](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/177)
  Jose will revert towards the current NotificationEvent structure as defined in Design Guidelines (as proposed in https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/177#issuecomment-1635517840)

* [#171 First pass for including linting for pull requests](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/171)
  Will be addressed after release v0.9.0 is done. To be decided which linters will be activited at the start. Alignment with rule set which is in work at Commonalities tbd.

* [#162 Add PATCH operation](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/162)
  Not discussed, will be part of v0.10.0


## API Roadmap

### Release 0.9.0

* Release 0.9.0 ready to be released after merge of PR #177
* Herbert will create respective issue and PR next week
* Randy reported that his team has successfully implemented the releace candidate and didn't encountered new issues

### Release 0.10.0

* September-October 2023? (as for DeviceStatus 0.6.0)
* Focus on stabilization of API definition, e.g. introduction of linting
* Changes expected from Authn/Authz discussion in Identity & Consent and potentially from Notifiation/Subscription in Commonalities
  * Current guideline not optimized for implicit notification subscription as in QoD API
* New features to be discussed in next call
  * e.g. PATCH operation

## AOB

* The next call will be on July 28th, 2 PM CEST / 12:00 UTC
* Proposal to skip the call on August 11th (summer break)
