# Camara QoD meeting - MOM-2023-06-16

*June 16th, 2023*

## Attendees (not complete - add if needed)

* Andrew Wajs (Scenera)
* Akos Hunyadi (Deutsche Telekom)
* Emil Zhang (Ericsson)
* Eric Murray (Vodafone)
* Herbert Damker (Deutsche Telekom)
* Jose Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Rafal Artych (Deutsche Telekom)
* Ramesh Shanmugasundaram (Spry Fox Networks)
* Randy Levensalor (CableLabs)
* Thorsten Lohmar (Ericsson)
* Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)
* ...

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* PR #151 - doc/update-spec-doc-issue-144
* Preparation for v0.9.0-rc prerelease
* Issue #158 - Add linting GitHub actions
* Discussion of backlog issues, scope of release after v0.9.0
* AOB

## Updates and housekeeping
  * Merged between the calls as agreed:
    * PR [#163 Add oauth authorizationCode security to sensible endpoints](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/163) - fixed #161
    * PR [#155 Aligned notifications with guideline](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/155) - fixed #154 and #157 

## Preparation for v0.9.0-rc prerelease
  * Almost ready to create v0.9.0-rc, the release candidate of v0.9.0
  * Steps to create the release (similar for all releases)
    * PR with updates of CHANGELOG.md and change of version in .yaml to v0.9.0-rc (instead v0.9.0-wip)
      * Will be created by Herbert
      * Review until eob Tuesday June 20th
    * Merge commit of the PR will be tagged as v0.9.0-rc
      * Via Github release feature, as pre-release in this case
      * Release description will be copied from Changelog
    * Proposal: no release branch for the pre-release
    * Next commit after the release is setting the version within .yaml again to v0.9.0-wip
  * Two or four weaks later the actual release v0.9.0, time to be used for
    * Bug fixes, e.g. found by implementation teams 
    * Updates of documentation, e.g. clarifications, editorial fixes etc.

## PR [#151 - doc/update-spec-doc-issue-144](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/151)
  * PR is rebased to current main, comments are addressed
  * Previous .md documentation file removed to avoid inconsistencies
  * Discussion about QosStatus enum:
    * The issue came up within comment in PR #155, but not solved there
    * Option 1: use same enum within response bodies and events, explain differences (not all values will be currently used in events) in documentation
    * Option 2: split current QosStatus enum in two, a new model "EventQosStatus" to be used within notification events
    * Decision to go with option 2, as more flexible for future extensions
    * Update: new PR [#167](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/167) created by Jose, will be merged on Monday
  * PR merged and issue #144 closed

## Issue [#158 Add linting GitHub actions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/158)
  * In work by Randy, PR to be expected for next call
  * Cooperation with issue in Commanalities [#232 Extend the API guidelines with a concrete ruleset](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/232)
  * QoD sub project once again as pioneer

## Discussion of backlog issues, scope of release after v0.9.0

* Definition of scope of v0.10.0 (or v1.0.0) should include input from the "Product Team" (in GSMA Open Gateway?)
    * Process how demand from product perspective can come into the scope definition of next release to be clarified
    * Jose will invite TEF colleague into next call to introduce the Product team
    * Objective of the team is to ensure that defined APIs will be implemented by as many operators as possible with the same coverage of the API features
    * Consensus that the ratio between value for developers/API consumers vs implementation effert for operators is an important criteria for the decisions which enhancements should go into the next release
    * Beside "product requirements" there could be technical requirements which need to be addressed

* General notion that the next release should have a focus on stability and should avoid breaking changes

* Discussion of the issues currently within backlog

  * [#7 Add new endpoint in QoD API to request available qos_profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/7)
    * Base functionality done in v0.9.0, remaining functionality in #147 and #166
    * Original issue to be closed<br>
  * [#31 Ensure secure handling of callback URL](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/31)
    * Security issue potentially not completely addressed within v0.9.0, Akos will create a new issue with the remaining points
  * [#45 Need to support ability to configure fallback qos](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/45)
    * Functionality of NEF in Rel 16/17, unclear if implementions within operator cores are available
    * Product demand to be clarified
  * [#51 Proposal of IpFlowDescription to allow asymmetric QoS flows and (re)introduce protocol definitions](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/51)
    * Demand and implementation effort to be clarified
  * [#101 List endpoint for active sessions of authenticated user](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/101)
    * Requests from developers known (to recover session IDs)
    * Implementation be possible based on clientId used in OAuth authentication
  * [#147 Extend the query capabilities for Qos Profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/147)
    * Derived from [#7](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/7) above
    * Demand and implementation effort to be clarified
  * [#166 Extend QoS Profile queries to list profiles based on specific users or devices](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/166)
    * Derived from [#7](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/7) above
    * Demand most likely, implementation effort to be clarified

### Issues closed / to be closed:

  * Issue #144, fixed by #151
  * Issue #7, remaining issues within #147 and #166

## AOB

* Topics for next call
  * Status of release (candidate) v0.9.0
  * PR for #158
  * Discussion of product team request for next release
* The next call will be on June 30th, 2 PM CEST / 12:00 UTC
