# Camara QoD meeting - MOM-2023-04-21

*April 21st, 2023*

## Attendees

* Akos Hunyadi (Deutsche Telekom)
* Babu Narayan (Nabstract)
* Chris Corcimiglia (CableLabs)
* Emil Zhang (Ericsson)
* Eric Murray (Vodafone)
* Herbert Damker (Deutsche Telekom)
* Ivan Nieto (Vodafone)
* Joachim Dahlgreen (Ericsson)
* Jorge Garcia Hospital (Telefonica)
* Jose Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Mihai Lazar (Dell)
* Nuno Emanuel Rodrigues (Nos)
* Rafal Artych (Deutsche Telekom)
* Ramesh Shanmugasundaram (Spry Fox Networks)
* Theohar (Hari) Konomi (TELUS)
* Thorsten Lohmar (Ericsson)
* Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Updates
* [Release Planning v0.9.0](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/136)
* PR for [#34 Resolving ueAddr ambiguity when it is the UE private address](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/34)
* PR for [#125 Adds service provider defined QoS profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/125)
* Further new and open PRs and Issues
* AOB
  * Next call

## Updates
* Templates for issues and PRs agreed in Commonalities (see [Proposed Github issue and pull request templates #174](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/174))
* New issue: [Orga: Enable use of Issue and PR templates in QoD sub project #140](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/140)

## Release Planning v0.9.0
* Agreed as described in [Release Planning v0.9.0](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/136)
* Content will be the PR described below, target is to start the final review with the next call on May 5th
* Discussion of issue for v0.10.0 can start soon

## Issue [#34 Resolving ueAddr ambiguity when it is the UE private address](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/34)
* PR [Updated method for identifying devices by IPv4 address #139](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/139)
* Please review the PR soon to allow resolving of comments before next call, comments to be documented within the PR
* Herbert will create votes (discussion items) for the remaining terminology discussions 

## Issue [#125 Adds service provider defined QoS profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/125)
* PR [Create service provider defined QoS Profile #138](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/138)
* Please review the PR soon to allow resolving of comments before next call, comments to be documented within the PR

## Further open PRs issues (w/o backlog items)

* see [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues)

### Further open PRs and issues:

* [Providing initial test case contribution #133](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/133)
  * Draft PR: [Pull Request for Initial QoD Cucumber Test contribution](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/134)
  * Completion of the the PR planned for next week
* [#115 Default duration should be only an example](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/115)
  * Will not be fixed, see [comment in issue](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/115#issuecomment-1515994592), to be closed
* [#97 Alignment with API design guidelines](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/97)
    * Done with the (merged) PRs #104 and #129, to be closed
* [#84 IPv6-object will be generated instead of a String](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/84)
    * A regex is needed here which will sufficiently restrict the input ot valid IPv6 addresses => proposals are welcome
    * Patrice recommened [https://regex101.com/](https://regex101.com/) as a good site to check regex patterns.
    * 2023-04-21: no update, stale issue
* [#31 Ensure secure handling of callback URL](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/31)
    * See discussion within the issue
    * Need to be aligned with the discussion in Commonalities: [Unified Notfication/Event management #156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156) - therefore on hold in QoD

### Issues closed / to be closed:

* [#97 Alignment with API design guidelines](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/97)
* [#115 Default duration should be only an example](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/115)

## AOB

* The next call will be on May 5th, 2 PM CEST / 12:00 UTC
