# Camara QoD meeting - MOM-2023-05-05

*May 5th, 2023*

## Attendees (Incomplete)

* ...
* Akos Hunyadi (Deutsche Telekom)
* Emil Zhang (Ericsson)
* Eric Murray (Vodafone)
* Herbert Damker (Deutsche Telekom)
* Jorge Garcia Hospital (Telefonica)
* Jose Luis Urien Pinedo (Telefonica)
* Nuno Emanuel Rodrigues (Nos)
* Rafal Artych (Deutsche Telekom)
* Randy Levensalor (CableLabs)
* Thorsten Lohmar (Ericsson)
* Toshiyasu Wakayama (KDDI)
* ...

QoD minutes: [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/tree/main/documentation/MeetingMinutes)

## Agenda

* Updates and housekeeping
* PR for [#34 Resolving ueAddr ambiguity when it is the UE private address](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/34)
* PR for [#125 Adds service provider defined QoS profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/125)
* Further new and open PRs and Issues
* AOB

## Updates and housekeeping
  * [Release Planning v0.9.0](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/136)
    * "Content will be the PRs described below, target is to start the final review with the next call on May 5th"
    * Target is to have final review versions of PRs below until May 12th in Github
  * New issue on documentation [Add documentation into API definition for release v0.9.0 ](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/144)
    * Jose Luis Urien Pinedo volunteered, issue assigned
  * Status of discussion within Commonalities on [Update API guidelines to add subscription/notification/event.md #173](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/pull/173)? => required for our issue [Ensure secure handling of callback URL #31](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/31)
    * Rafal: aim in Commonality is to have final review/merge within next week.


## Issue #34 / PR #139
* Issue [#34 Resolving ueAddr ambiguity when it is the UE private address](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/34)
* PR [Updated method for identifying devices by IPv4 address #139](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/139)
* Results of discussions/votes:
  * [Vote: DeviceIpv4Addr object properties (from PR #139)](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/discussions/141): Option 1 decided: `publicAddress`, `privateAddress` & `publicPort`
  * [Vote: Rename of devicePorts property of CreateSession object](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/discussions/142): decision to keep `devicePorts`for now
* Eric will update the PR based on the results, then ready for final review

## Issue #124 / PR #138 
* Issue [#125 Adds service provider defined QoS profiles](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/125)
* PR [Create service provider defined QoS Profile #138](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/138)
* For discussion results see [PR comment](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/138#issuecomment-1537887796) 


## Further open PRs issues (w/o backlog items)

* see [https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues)

### Further open PRs and issues:

* [Providing initial test case contribution #133](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/issues/133)
  * PR: [Pull Request for Initial QoD Cucumber Test contribution](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/134)
  * PR is in review - discussion will happen there.

* [#84 IPv6-object will be generated instead of a String](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/84)
    * A regex is needed here which will sufficiently restrict the input ot valid IPv6 addresses => proposals are welcome
    * Patrice recommened [https://regex101.com/](https://regex101.com/) as a good site to check regex patterns.
    * 2023-05-05: no update, stale issue

* [#31 Ensure secure handling of callback URL](https://github.com/camaraproject/QualityOnDemand/pull/31)
    * See discussion within the issue
    * Need to be aligned with the discussion in Commonalities: [Unified Notfication/Event management #156](https://github.com/camaraproject/WorkingGroups/issues/156)
    * Result in Commonalities expected next week, impact on QoD API should go still into v0.9.0 if possible.

### Issues closed / to be closed:

* n/a

## AOB

* The next call will be on May 19th, 2 PM CEST / 12:00 UTC
